With that deep dive, let's do some checks if we can not only see this in action here but also
prove that by comparing some things. So it looks like the prototype of Anna is person,
does that mean that if I print the following, we get true?
Wait a second,
if I print anna.__proto__, remember this is an unsafe way but it's fine for testing here,
if I print this, I'm accessing the prototype of Anna and I compare this to person.
So I'm just checking if the prototype of Anna is person
and again, don't use this in production.
What do you think we'll see if I hit run?
We get true because it's the case, the prototype of Anna is person and if I access the prototype of the prototype,
so the prototype of person, is that then Object.prototype?
Let's see,
it's true,
yes.
The prototype of person and this is the prototype of proto
here, is Object.prototype.
So here, we can kind of see the chain of prototypes, you could think of this proto as person and this
proto as Object.prototype,
so that's where we get our functions and fields from. A more safe way to find out if we have the prototype
here or if just this equal is, going back to the first check,
if I use the built-in object object and then the static method getPrototypeOf
and I want to get the prototype of Anna and compare that with person.
So we should get true here too
and we do.
So this is a way you could use in production too if you need to find out or compare prototypes for example,
this is available so getPrototypeOf is a safer way to get the prototype of Anna.
However of course it's longer
but dunder proto, so __proto__ is no safe way to access the prototype
in production code.
It will be added with the next specification of Javascript
as far as I am aware but don't use it right now. So that's been prototypes.
Hopefully, it's clear how they work and in the end that they are only blueprints for you to extend
with your objects and to benefit from methods or fields you might not have built-in into your project
but
in a prototype at a higher level from which you're kind of inheriting and it's only Javascript's
form of inheritance, that is how you have to think about it.
And with this prototype chain you saw, you have this way of accessing fields and methods your object
might not have.